now that we have vivado open the first thing we
want to do is create a top file for our logic this
file will connect the inputs from our switches
to the seven segment display and provide the
required logic for determining which characters to
illuminate depending on which switch is selected
to create a source file for verilog what we
can do is click the plus button here go to
add or create design sources we'll
create a new file let's call this seven_seg
click finish accept the defaults for the
definitions we're going to describe those later
that's okay so now Vivado should create a
templated file for us so double click on that
to open it in this case i've already prepared
it so we have a look at what i've described
so we have the initial definition for the module
this tells us we're creating a module called seven_seg
with a selection of inputs and outputs we have an
input of a four bit wide bus called switch or sw
we have outputs for a b c d e f and g
corresponding to the different segments
on the seven segment display and then we have an
assignment here for specifically the a segment
where i've used boolean algebra from the truth
table in your lab notes to create the logic
that describes when the segment for a should be
illuminated depending on which switch is selected
so what you'll need to do is you'll need to create
assignments for each of the other segments of
display b c d e f and g what the assign
keyword does is tell the synthesis tools
that 'a' corresponds to a specific selection of
logic as an input and output 'a' depending on the
evaluation of this logic so what you need to do
is create the other segments based upon your truth
table and then we can go and start looking at how
to actually generate the bitstream required for
running it on the fpga itself so what we'll need
to do once you've created the other segments
is go to constraints and click add or create
constraints so what we described earlier was the
verilog source file this is the logic inside
of the fpga and how the routing is mapped
the constraints file however is the interface the
outside world so where verilog describes how the
logic internally is configured the constraints
file determine how the mapping from inside the
fpga is connected to the outside world so we'll
create a file let's call that nexys4.xdc
okay and click finish so you'll see
here it's created the file for us
now i've already created a file previously so it
has some of my previous logic actually in this
file if you navigate to the repository the github
repository that i specified at the beginning of
the lab you can see that here i'll have this file
stored so you don't need to worry about copying it
across you can just grab it from here and open
it within vivado the best thing to do if you're
on windows is actually to download this entire
repository as a zip find the nexys4.xdc file
copy the contents of that file and then paste
it into the file that we created from Vivado
so what we need to do is
go through and actually set
which properties connect the outside of the
board to the fpga so here you can see i've
created four constraints specifically
for the switches so we know that we have
sw 0 to 3 these describe the first four
which is from the right side of the fpga board
and how they connect to the fpga itself the next
thing we need to do is we need to go down to the
seven segment display so we know that there
are the seven segments and we also need to
create the assignments for each of these in the
file that i've uploaded to github there will
be these seven segments already described you
may need to uncomment them depending on which
lab we're currently doing make sure to only
uncomment the ones you need if you uncomment
additional ones you may get complaints as
the tools run through the synthesis process
so now that we have this in place we can actually
go ahead and start generating bitstreams
so when we click generate bitstream what this
will do is it will initially run through synthesis
synthesis takes our verilog that we've written
and compiles into what's known as a netlist
a netllist is a logical arrangement on the fpga
itself that describes any of the logic that
we specified in the verilog file once the netlist
has been generated vivado then goes through what's
known as the implementation process so there's two
stages with programming fpgas the first is turning
high level verilog into a netlist the second
is placing that list actually onto the fpga itself
so the netlist is just a description of how the
very very low level basically below resistor
transistor logic is described at a fundamental
level this then needs to be transcribed to the
fpga itself so implementation works out which
physical resources on the fpga can be used
and how to route them together by clicking
generate bit stream the tool will run through both
synthesis implementation and then compile that into
a bitstream for us so click generate bitstream
if you've run it previously you
may get this warning just hit yes
select the number of jobs you want in this
case as many as possible would be ideal
when your design has finished generating you
should receive this message we can then go to
is the hardware manager this will be the
interface between fpga and the vivado tools
so from here we can see that a device has been
found but it hasn't been opened we can open it by
clicking open target and auto connect so now our
device has been found we can go to program device
the default bitstream should be the one that
we generated a few moments ago click program
your device should now illuminate with all of
the seven segment displays showing zero so we
can see that at default all of the values are set
to zero and as we increment the binary values on
the first four switches we get the corresponding
numerical alphanumerical representation one two
three so on so forth all the way up to
f